Initial case file DIVD-2023-00001 (#547)
DIVD-NL/web-csirt: _cases/2023/DIVD-2023-00001.md

---
layout: case
title: Citrix systems vulnerable for CVE-2022-27510  and/or CVE-2022-27518

> excerpt: "Based on scanning data obtained fro Fox-IT, DIVD is notifying owners of vulnerable Citrix ADCV and Gateway systems"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Based on scanning data obtained from Fox-IT, DIVD is notifying owners of vulnerable Citrix ADCV and Gateway systems"
```

author: Frank Breedijk
lead: Frank Breedijk
researchers:

> - Yun Hun (Fox-IT)

Reviewer 2: Yun Hu (Fox-IT)

cves:
- CVE-2022-27510
- CVE-2022-27518
product: 
- Citrix ADC

> - Citrix Gameway

Reviewer 2: Citrix Gateway

ips: 0 
# You can set IPs to n/a when this case isn't about IPs (e.g. stolen credentials)
---
## Summary

When [Fox-IT](https://www.fox-it.com/) researcher [Yun Hu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yunzhenghu/) read the these two [security](https://support.citrix.com/article/CTX463706/citrix-gateway-and-citrix-adc-security-bulletin-for-cve202227510-cve202227513-and-cve202227516)
* [Citrix security bulletin for CVE-2022-27518](https://support.citrix.com/article/CTX474995) [bulletins](https://support.citrix.com/article/CTX474995/citrix-adc-and-citrix-gateway-security-bulletin-for-cve202227518) from Citrix, he decided that it was time to start scanning the internet for Citrix servers vulnerable to {% cve cve-2022-27510 %} and (later) {% cve 2022-27518 %}. And he has publisched a very nice [blog post](https://blog.fox-it.com/2022/12/28/cve-2022-27510-cve-2022-27518-measuring-citrix-adc-gateway-version-adoption-on-the-internet/)

Early Jan 2023 Fox-IT and DIVD agreed to cooperate and share data so that DIVD can warn the owners of vulnerable systems.

These two of CVEs are critical. 

### {% cve CVE-2022-27510 %} - Unauthorized access to Gateway user capabilities

> This vulnerability allows an attacker allows an attack to remotely take control over an appliance if is is "operating as a Gateway (SSL VPN, ICA Proxy, CVPN, RDP Proxy)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This vulnerability allows an attacker allows an attack to remotely take control over an appliance if it is "operating as a Gateway (SSL VPN, ICA Proxy, CVPN, RDP Proxy)"
```

> This vulnerability allows an attacker allows an attack to remotely take control over an appliance if is is "operating as a Gateway (SSL VPN, ICA Proxy, CVPN, RDP Proxy)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This vulnerability leaves your appliance open to being taken over remotely by an attacker, if it is "operating as a Gateway (SSL VPN, ICA Proxy, CVPN, RDP Proxy)"
```

### {% cve 2022-27518 %}  - Unauthenticated remote arbitrary code execution

> This vulnerability allows an attacker to take over an appliance if it is confugured as a SAML Service Provider or SAML Identity Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This vulnerability allows an attacker to take over an appliance if it is configured as a SAML Service Provider or SAML Identity Provider.
```

## What you can do

> If you are running a Citrix server that has not been patched to a non-vulnerable version, we recomment you patch it, especially if you are using one of the following features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Citrix server hasn't been updated to a secure version, we strongly advise you to patch it, especially if you're utilizing any of the following features:
```

* SSL VPN
* ICA Proxy
* CVPN
* RDP Proxy
* SAML (Either service provider or Identity provider)

If you are not using one of these servers we still recommend that you patch to a non-vulnerable version to prevent that your appliance becomes vulnerable when you start using one of these functions in the future.

## What we are doing

> Fox-IT is sharing lists with vulnerable systems on a regular basis and DIVD is sending out notifications to owers of vulnerable systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fox-IT is sharing lists with vulnerable systems on a regular basis and DIVD is sending out notifications to owners of vulnerable systems.
```
